president fellow at the center of
conflict and humanitarian studies and
co-editor of jadala which is an online
magazine he joins us now live from
Montreal thank you for joining the
program so what what is your reaction to
these a drops uh coming from the US
today well I think it's worse than
useless it's the equivalent of putting a
Band-Aid on a metastasizing tumor and
then claiming a medical breakthrough um
every Aid organization that is involved
every uh serious analyst who has looked
at this has indicated that there is
severe hunger and malnutrition
throughout the Gaza Strip that famine is
imminent that children are already dying
because of lack of access to food and
most importantly that the only way that
this can be addressed is through a
massive infusion of urgently needed Aid
um over land the United States which is
a full partner in Israel's genocidal
onslaughts on the Gaza Strip and which
is a full partner in the siege of the
Gaza Strip is seeking to divert
attention from its role and from
Israel's role and seeking to provide
legitimacy to The Siege by dropping a
few thousand meals ready to eat from the
sky which again everyone who has looked
at says this is a drop in the bucket and
will make no no meaningful difference um
to the overall situation in the Us's
defense other countries including Qatar
and Jordan have also dropped Aid into
Gaza this way yes there can be no
defense of the US rule in the genocidal
onslaught of the Gaza Strip I'm sorry
you're correct that other countries have
also engage in air drops but the only
reason that they're engaging in air
drops is because Israel with the full
and unconditional support of the United
States is preventing the delivery of
sufficient amounts of aid over land and
I I think what the US is trying to do
now is to um as others have noted
legitimize The Siege and legitimize a
genocide Onslaught by throwing a few
packets of food from the air at the
starving population I think another
Factor that's worth considering here is
that as with the attempt um uh to
achieve a pause in this genocidal
Onslaught the US appears to be very
concerned by the onset of the Muslim
month of Ramadan in about nine days and
is very concerned that this could be a a
period of heightened opposition to the
US Israeli policy and is Keen to have um
some kind of stability for that period
again to gain legitimacy for the renewal
and intensification of the on of of the
onslaught and of The Siege once Ramadan
ends so I think the US deserves
absolutely no credit for what it's doing
because you know yeah please go ahead
then well there has been an increased
tone of exasperation from the US uh and
President Biden towards Israel but but I
mean how much is that down do you think
to the pressure that President Biden is
under
domestically I I my sense is that Biden
genuinely doesn't care and if he has to
sacrifice his reelection in order to
stand with Israel he's fully prepared to
do so others in his uh leadership and in
the Democratic party are of course
extremely concerned and these airdrops
may be one way of uh of of addressing
this um but again you know given the
severity of the reality and given the
direct us role in engineering this
reality I think the US deserves
absolutely no credit for again effect
for this smoke and mirrors for this
diversionary charade for as I mentioned
earlier putting a Band-Aid on a
metastasizing tumor and then claiming a
medical breakthrough we' we've been
reporting this evening that the
framework for a deal that would
establish a six week ceasefire in Gaza
is now in place uh Israel uh agrees to
this framework and now it's down to
Hamas uh to tell us what you know what
they make of it and apparently they will
tell us tomorrow uh what is your
reaction to those latest
developments well I can fully understand
um given the desperation of of of the
Palestinian population in the Gaza Strip
that any respit is a welcome respit um
but if it's simply a stay of
execution and if it's a and if it's a
stay of execution whose primary purpose
is to legitimize the renewal and the
intensification of the genocidal
onslaught of the Gaza Strip it will w't
ultimately be meaningless and if I can
just make one additional Point yes there
is a desperate humanitarian Arian
situation in the Gaza Strip and yes this
desperate humanitarian situation needs
to be immediately and urgently addressed
but let's not go back to the late 1940s
and 1950s and pretend that the question
of Palestine is solely a humanitarian
question of giving these people the
basic necessities of life and that
there's no underlying fundamental
political issue the national rights that
need to be addressed and ful filled in
order for this crisis to be ultimately
resolved Mo Rani good to talk to you
non-resident fellow at the center of
conflict and human